\section{Problem Definition}

\vheading{Persistent Memory.} Persistent Memory or Non-Volatile Memory (NVM)
provides byte-addressable and persistent memory at DRAM latencies. In other words,
Persistent Memory allows concurrent accesses to the data at high speeds and
guarantees that the data is persisted across system reboots or crashes. However,
persistent memory comes with its challenges: NVM requires applications to use
explicit cache flush instructions to ensure that the data reaches the persistent
memory. Moreover, these flush instructions can be re-ordered with the loads and
stores, requiring applications to use fence instructions to prevent correctness
critical instructions to be executed in-order.

\vheading{Complex Concurrent Indexes.} While fence and flush instructions ensure
correctness and data durability, they introduce a lot of performance overhead.
Also, with persistent memory the caches can be flushed at arbitrary times,
making it harder to design a data structure that maintains data consistency
across system crashes or failures.

\vheading{\Checker library.} We introduce \checker, a model checking
library for systematically verifying persistent memory data structures using
model checking. \Checker is built on top of the SPIN model checking framework,
using the Promela programming language. Other frameworks like TLA+ and languages
like PlusCal will be considered for building \checker. \Checker should formalize
the correctness and crash consistency properties of persistent memory data
structures as ltl-formulaes and provide APIs for modeling and verifying
persistent memory data structures.

\vheading{Related Work.} There has been research on modeling and specifying
relaxed memory models, which reorder instructions. Our work takes inspiration
from prior work and builds on top of it. \Checker models crash consistency along
with correctness. The prior work referred for building \checker is listed under
References.

\vheading{Verification Goals.} This paper aims at providing an extensible model
checking library for verifying persistent data structures. On a high level, the
goal is to verify state-of-the-art persistent data structures with minimal
effort while providing some guarantees on the correctness and crash-consistency.
